in this video an examiner and a student
Miguel conduct an example of part 1 of
the speaking tasks the introduction and
interview first we will look at the
introduction here we go how are you
today good thanks so Miguel where are
you from Mexico right and where do you
live now network ok and how long have
you been another 4 years how do you
think Miguel did not very well his
answers were too short and he didn't
give any details or examples let's now
look at how he can improve hello girl
how are you today hello I'm well thank
you how are you I'm well thanks
I'm gonna start off by asking you a few
questions about yourself can you tell me
where you're from I'm from Mexico City
it's the biggest city in Mexico and has
a huge population it's actually one of
the most populated in Latin America I
see and where do you live now now I live
in Felton which is the in the north of
Melbourne
it's full of pubs and restaurants and
he's popular with University students
mm-hm
and how long have you lived here in
Melbourne I've been here for four years
now
I came here four years ago to do my
Master's and now I'm working here hmm
this time Miguel did so much better he
spoke in more detail he gave more
information and his use of vocabulary
was much better now let's move on to the
second section of part one the interview
and Miguel do you enjoy something
um no I don't really like shopping I
only shop because I have to write and
how often do you go shopping not very
often
okay and what's your favorite shop and
why do you like it
I don't have a favorite shop okay and
what are some problems with the shops in
your area
mm ah
they're to be seen so what did Miguel do
wrong he used lots of Oz and has he also
said he doesn't like shopping but he
didn't explain why without an
explanation he found it difficult to
answer the rest of the questions make
sure you always have something to say
about the topic even if it's not
necessarily true let's have a look at
how Miguel could make his answers better
so Miguel do you enjoy shopping I don't
really enjoy shopping I would rather not
shop but it's something I can't avoid
mmm how often do you go shopping
I usually go on the weekend to do my
weekly shopping this way I only have to
go once a week right and can you tell me
what your favorite shop is and why you
like it well there's a shop not far from
where I live that sells food from Latin
America I like it because if I ever feel
homesick I can go there and buy some
home food mmm and what are some problems
with the shops in your area actually in
my area there are many shops which have
things for everybody there's a lot of
diversity from big stores to smaller
traditional shops the only problem I
would say is that some of them can be a
bit expensive Miguel did a lot better
although he doesn't like shopping he
answered the questions by using his own
experiences
now practice this yourself in the
practice exercise you will hear an
examiner asking questions you then can
record your answers listen to one how
fluently you speak to if you use too
many pauses and fillers and three if you
have given enough details in your
answers thanks
you